[MUSIC]
Hello and welcome to the second
course in the Software Design and
Architecture Specialization.
Brought to you in partnership by
the University of Alberta and Coursera.
In this course,
we'll be exploring design patterns.
If you're joining us for the first time,
you may want to consider visiting our
first course in specialization
on Object-Oriented Design.
Although, if you're just interested
in learning about design patterns,
all of our courses stand
alone as individual courses.
This course It's just like
the others in our specialization,
consists of four modules with the first
three focusing on the content.
You will complete assignments for the
capstone project throughout the course,
but the rest of the work will
take place in the fourth module.
So what are we going to
cover in these modules?
What's next in your journey
to designing it right?
What is a design pattern?
Well, design problems and
application can be resolved through design
patterns commonly applied by experts.
In this course you will
extend your knowledge of
Object-Oriented Analysis Design,
by learning how to apply design patterns
to addressing these design issues.
Though a survey of established design
patterns you will gain a foundation for
more complex software applications.
You'll also several design principles
to make a more reusable, flexible,
and maintainable.
Finally, we'll teach how to
identify bad software designs by
referencing a catalog code smell.
When you reach the capstone
in this course,
you'll get to apply your
newly acquired knowledge.
You'll be challenged to critique an
existing job application for code smells.
You'll also get
the opportunity to redesign
the application to apply to side parents.
For the first module,
we'll be teaching you about creational and
structural design patterns.
So let's begin.
>> In software engineering,
you will often come across the same
design problem many times.
There are so many ways to deal with these
recurring problems but over time some
solutions are preferred over others,
because they're more flexible or reusable.
A design pattern is a practical proven
solution to a recurring design problem.
Instead of solving a particular software
problem by basic objectory into
programming principles every time,
where you would have to
decide what objects to use?
How objects need to relate and so on?
You can use previously outlined solutions
that expert developers have often used.
These design solutions are not theoretical
proposals of only academic interest.
These are actual solutions that
are used in industrial software.
Think of design pattens like the way
you would think of recipes in cooking.
There are some dishes that people
have experimented with and
cooked over and over again.
After a while, a certain way of cooking
a particular dish would be preferred
because it creates the best tasting dish.
Over the years,
developers have experimented with
many different design solutions.
And these design patterns outline
solutions that often create
the best outcome.
There are 23 design patterns identified
in a famous book called Design Patterns,
Elements of
Reusable Object-Oriented Software.
By authors Gamma, Helm,
Johnson, and Vlissides.
This course will go through
a selection of these patterns.
However, it's important to note that it
won't be so simple to look at a software
design problem and automatically
know which design pattern to use.
There are many design
patterns available and
sometimes one particular design
pattern may seem applicable,
but it may not actually be the right
fit to the problem at hand.
Using design patterns is sort
of like playing a game of chess.
There are many ways to win by
putting your opponent in checkmate.
A beginner chess player may only
know the basic moves of each piece.
Whereas an expert chess player will look
for appropriate patterns on the board.
There are established chess
patterns called the exposed king or
the isolated pawn, for example.
And these are patterns that experts will
look to exploit while playing the game.
Through experience, they are better
able to judge which patterns to use or
create in a particular
situation to win the game.
Similar to chess, beginner software
developers might only know the elements of
language syntax in programming software.
They know elements like how to create
a for loop, a method, and so on.
But with more practice and experience,
these software developers will write more
idiomatic code that follows
common conventions.
Also, they can become design experts
who know the design patterns to
use in solving particular
software design problems.
Another thing to note about
design patterns is that it's
not just a concrete set of source
code that you memorize and
put into your software,
like Java libraries or frameworks.
Design patterns are a bit more conceptual.
It is knowledge that you can apply
within your software design to
guide its structure, and
make it more flexible and reuseable.
So, why should you use design patterns?
Design patterns help
software developers so
that instead of building
everything from scratch,
they have a guide that helps them solve
design problems in the way experts do.
A beginner athlete may have
the natural talent and
basic knowledge of the sport they playing.
But a couch with years of experience
will be able to help that athlete
to become better and use their
talent to achieve greater things.
Design patterns are already
proven by experts, and
they've gone through the hardships.
You can skip the trials they've
already gone through, and
just to straight to creating
better written software.
Finally, design patterns help
to create a design vocabulary.
Rather than having to explain the details
of a design solution over, and over again,
you can simplify the discussion by
having a suggestive word to describe it.
For example, there's a very
common design problem in software
where you have two objects and the first
object depends on the second object.
If the second object changes,
the first object should be notified.
This is a situation that
occurs often in software and
we take some time during
the discussion to describe a solution
involving super classes or
interphases and certain methods.
Design patterns help to address issue
by giving each pattern a name and
making it easier for
developers to communicate.
Instead, you can simply say we'll
use an observer design pattern here.
Prior knowledge of this particular
pattern outlines a solution and
clarifies the original situation.
So the discussion can
focus on other issues.
Knowledge of design patterns leaves
less room for misunderstanding.
My description of this situation and
solution could've been vague.
And you could've misunderstood
the design to be implemented.
If I simply say,
this is an observer pattern,
we both know exactly
what we're discussing.
You will learn many design
patterns throughout this course.
You will learn what to look for,
and how to use each design pattern.
Design patterns are important techniques
to use and learn as you design software.
So now it's time to start
designing like an expert.